<VAISC2> A VAIRC Robot is considered Parked at the end of the Match if it meets all of the following 
criteria:
a. The Robot is designated as the Team’s 24” Robot for the current Match.
b. The Robot meets all criteria of rule <SC4>.

<VAISC1> A Team receives a Control Bonus if the outermost Block Scored in one end of a Long Goal
and the nearest corresponding end of a Center Goal are the same color as the Team.
a. A Block must be considered Scored in a Goal (see <SC2>) to count toward a Control Bonus.
b. A Block that is entirely within the space defined by the outer edges of the two white tape lines of a 
Long Goal does not count toward the Control Bonus (see figure VAISC1-1).
c. In a Center Goal, the Scored Block that is closest to that end of the Goal will count toward the 
Control Bonus (see figure VAISC1-2). If only one Block is Scored in a Center Goal, it will count toward 
both of the Control Bonuses which include that Goal

<VAIRS4> A 24” Robot in a VAIRC Robot Skills Match begins the Match in a Parked position in the blue 
Park Zone. A 15” Robot in a VAIRC Robot Skills Match begins the Match in a Parked position in the red 
Park Zone. Robots do not begin the Match with Preloads

<VAIRS7> Scoring VAIRC Robot Skills Matches. For each VAIRC Robot Skills Match, Teams are awarded 
a score based on the following rules and scoring table:
a. The Team will receive points for one color of Block per Goal, determined by which color represents 
the majority of Blocks Scored in that Goal at the end of the Match (e.g., if there are 7 red Blocks and 
5 blue Blocks in a Long Goal, the Team will only receive points for the red Blocks). If an equal number 
of red and blue Blocks is Scored in a Goal, none of those Blocks will receive points.
b. Blocks that are deemed “too close 
to call” by the referee should be counted as being within the vertical projection.
c. The Team will receive points for each blue Block that ends the Match in one of the Loaders adjacent 
to the blue Park Zone, and for each red Block that ends the Match in one of the Loaders adjacent to 
the red Park Zone (up to six per Loader).
i. A Loader that ends the Match containing six Blocks that match the color of the adjacent Park 
Zone will receive additional points.
d. The Team will earn points for a Parked Robot as follows:
i. A 24” Robot can only use the red Park Zone, and must meet all criteria of rule <SC4> at the end of 
the Match.
ii. A 15” Robot can only use the blue Park Zone, and must meet all criteria of rule <SC4> at the end 
of the Match.
e. Control Zones and Control Bonuses are not considered in VAIRC Skills Matches.


VEX AI Competition Scoring:
Each Block Scored 3 Points
Each Control Bonus 10 Points
Parked 24” Robot 10 Point

VEX AI Skills Scoring:
Each Block of the majority color Scored in a Goal 3 Points
Each Block in a Loader that matches the adjacent Park Zone 3 Points
Each Loader that is filled with the color of the adjacent Park Zone 5 Points
Parked Robot 5 Point




<VUG1> Different Robot placement than rule <GG10>. The red Team has the right to place one Robot on 
the Field first, followed by both blue Robots, and ending with the 2nd red Robot. This applies in Qualification 
Matches and Elimination Matches. If this right is used, once a Team has placed a Robot on the Field, its 
position cannot be readjusted prior to the Match

<VURS2> Both Robots must start the Robot Skills Match in legal starting positions for the red Alliance. All 
other portions of rule <SG1> apply

VEX U Competition Scoring:
Each Block Scored 3 Points
Each Controlled Zone in a Long Goal 10 Points
Controlled Center Goal - Upper 8 Points
Controlled Center Goal - Lower 6 Points
1 Parked Alliance Robot 8 Points
2 Parked Alliance Robots 30 Point

VEX U Skills scoring:
Each Block Scored in a Goal 1 Point
Each filled Control Zone in a Long Goal 5 Points
Each filled Control Zone in a Center Goal 10 Points
Each Cleared Park Zone 5 Points
Each Cleared Loader 5 Points
Parked Robot 15 Point

<SC3> A Control Zone is considered Controlled by an Alliance if a majority of the Blocks Scored in that 
Control Zone are the same color as the Alliance.
a. For Long Goals, a Scored Block is considered Scored in the Control Zone if it is entirely contained within 
that Control Zone.
b. A Block must be considered Scored in a Goal (see <SC2>) to also be considered Scored in a Control Zone